from my perspective as a child very
clearly the validity of communism really
stood or fell with the same claims to
validity the Catholic Church often uses
because the charitable instinct was so
strong in me there was this tendency to
judge communism against charity is the
social function of cheerio are you
trying to help other people or not and
keep it all the way we'll remember my
father had real kind of rage and sorrow
my mom took that whole generation from
the Vietnam War specifically the Vietnam
War and you know for my parents and for
a lot of people their age their response
to the Vietnam War had nothing to do
with charity it was real hatred and rage
and so it was a real sense they wanted
to destroy the United States they wanted
an angry fist you know and I didn't see
the world I mean I think they were wrong
to see it that way also I mean I think
they were both incorrect and morally
wrong to see it that way but you have to
roast a lot of those people got involved
loving left-wing politics and they
didn't have any in charitable Moto's and
it wasn't at all like the way I felt as
a child seeing images of poor and
starving people on television I mean as
a child I never saw that in real life
but in real life you'd see maybe
homeless people on the street see people
living in poverty a different situation
the image of poverty and starvation and
then the question of what do we do from
here and you know the other question
which is definitely links to veganism
why doesn't anybody else care about us
yen hey guys this is being recorded in
very strange circumstances I'm gonna
read and reply to a comment since me on
patreon from Theo Theo is not just a fan
or a supporter he's really a super fan
sometimes I quote myself and I can't
find the quote and he knows what video
I'm quoting like where is the video
where I said this about this topic or
something so Theo knows my material
really well one of the reasons for that
is that he has been doing some kind of
archive work I'd say he's been looking
around a lot at what's been going on in
the vegan movement and he's been kind of
piecing together links to different
articles by different vegans and
different websites in different videos
and so on my best girl melissa is
sitting here just off camera next to me
she can chime in at any time anyway so
Theo writes quote I don't know the
timeline of your journey into vegan
activism - well I know you've had an
affinity for charity ever since you felt
betrayed by parents and doctrine aiding
you into communist ideology sometime
around when you were studying Buddhism
doing him
Terran aid etc so I'll read the rest of
this paragraph this is an interesting
point so he's saying that I've had an
affinity for charity charity work and
this is somehow linked to growing up
with parents who were communists and my
own rejection of communism um so I had a
longtime friend and frenemy called
Philip who you know some stories about
they and Philip grew up with Christian
parents and he felt that he was
indoctrinated into a form of
Christianity despised and they were not
I'm I don't know if anyone can be called
a normal Christian but they were not
quite normal Christians it has to be
said they liked going to Nigeria not
just to do sherry work but because they
liked the really hardline extreme form
of Anglican frost in Christianity got
out there they didn't find Christianity
harsh enough no biblical enough whatever
II want to say and I think probably
homophobia and so on played a role in
that so that was where they feel
comfortable was as being white
missionaries in in that part of Africa
anyway but I said to Philip before when
he was complaining to his own parents I
said you know possibly if we had
switched families at Birth you know if
he had been raised in my family I
wouldn't raised his family ironically
that's quite possible I would have
accepted my parents ideology just
because the charity aspect meant so much
to me I think that was really almost an
instinctive thing you know from
childhood and forward for me you know
like I can't say that was something ever
thought about oh yes ma'am why does
charity matter to me so much I think for
many people it is I don't know if that's
worth ten percent of the population or
50 percent of the population but I mean
the beset concept of doing the best you
can trying to help others I mean to give
you an example how did you feel babe
when you were a kid and you saw someone
who was mentally [ __ ] saw someone or
interacted saw someone on the street
like not in the news you know what I
mean when I was a child I felt very
strongly when I met interact with
mentally [ __ ] people including
people like born with Down syndrome so
severe forms of retardation not not some
minor thing I really wish that could
help them I felt this terrible yearning
to want to try to help them and the
powerlessness of knowing I couldn't and
also knowing that you know in terms what
your parents teach you you're told by
your parents and teachers to keep your
distance and not without reason
you know you
a little kid is probably dangerous for
you to interact with her play with
mentally disabled people so you know
that for me I think I had that out the
gate I had that out when I came out the
box that came that from day one you know
I don't think that was something taught
to me known the other it so look I mean
other kids also if they had parents who
were communists would have responded to
and questioned other aspects of the
ideology not just the the charity aspect
but from my perspective as a child very
clearly the validity of communism really
stood or fell with the same claims to
validity the Catholic Church often uses
so over there was a really crappy
mainstream movie The Da Vinci Code okay
so I saw like five minutes of that movie
while washing dishes and change the
channel honestly honestly I'm telling
the truth about watch that movie I'd
have no shame but I remember that was on
TV and some circumstance like that and
in at least the movie version the main
character confronts this representation
at sorry this is representative of the
Catholic Church and he sort of says you
know your church is built on lies and
the representative of the Catholic
Church she's a cardinal or a deacon or
something he's some reasonably ranking
person he says back that his church
washes the feet of the poor and feeds
and houses the homeless and this is
their claim to legitimacy now I remember
I just laughed at that at the time it
was just ridiculous what when you donate
money to the Catholic Church do you want
to know what percentage of it goes to
feeding the poor and what percentage if
it goes to housing you know clerical
scholars and priests and nuns in some
kind of luxury and you know I'm not
hating you just can't kid yourself what
do you what are you paying for you
paying for the the Pope to live in
luxury are you paying for the poor to
live in poverty if you wanted a charity
it was the vote Delvin the poor it
wouldn't look anything like the Catholic
Church right at its desired ever Fogerty
but that was always striking to me and
then only when I was a
a teenager but late in my teenage years
and I was in university I read that book
by Karl Popper so the particular book by
Karl Popper has a tough title the title
is the poverty of historicism a bunch of
his other books have catchy titles just
not that one and therefore the first
time I saw someone openly talking about
the extent to which Catholicism and
communism really had things in common
you know in terms of their appeal and
that resonated with me too I could see
you know this is this is this is a
really meaningful critique of both
frankly anyway something that I've said
to you recently was kind of a family
secret also was the extent to which my
father was drawn to Christianity and for
maybe ten years of his life really
believed in Christianity I always
thought that was very telling that the
same people were seduced by communist
extremism not moderate communism or
seduced by Christianity and I don't
think ever told you this story but I met
one professor in China and she didn't
admit it to me she admitted to my
ex-wife and then I heard from her that
she had she had a period where she had
lost faith in communism and she briefly
went over to what she considered
formally converting to but she started
going to church she was being seduced by
basically american-style Christianity
and she said directly because it made
the same kind of promises it had the
same kind of appeal for her you know so
she wasn't sleepwalking to that it
wasn't like somebody else's analysis so
there is an interesting kind of parallel
there but again I started this by saying
and I'll do humility that kind of
charitable instinct I think was so
important to me that it's quite possible
if I'd been raised by Christian parents
even crazy Christian parents even
specifically my friend Phillips crazy
Christian parents that I would have
found so much value and the charity side
of what they were doing that I don't
know I don't know what I would have done
you know I don't know what direction I
would take that in but you know the
claims to charity and the part of
communism are pretty paper-thin um I've
never heard anyone really try to justify
for example the American war in Vietnam
as charity like to really justify like
why are you bombing Vietnam is charity
I've never heard someone who really
tried to justify the American war in
Afghanistan this charity was another
parallel thing and the Communists had
the same problem the Communists also
invaded
Afghanistan they convinced me conquered
Afghanistan people now forget they had
their own history so that they overlap
in that specific example and to look at
any of those but that's only one example
but to look at any of those episodes in
the history of of communism in Russia or
in China it's very hard to give a
charitable reading to them so that
really is like a pond or a play on words
but uh you know hey I'm not I'm not
joking around for no reason here so
there's an interesting point Theo is
opening with here so again coming back
to Theo's letter to me he says quote I
know you've had an affinity for charity
ever since you felt betrayed by your
parents a doctor in you into a communist
ideology and I kind of see that the
other way around because the charitable
instinct was so strong in me there was
this tendency to judge communism against
charity is the social function of Chery
are you trying to help other people or
not and keep it all the way we'll
remember my father had real kind of rage
and sorrow my mom took that whole
generation from the Vietnam War
specifically the Vietnam War showed at
that animal Jo tanomo Joe's father also
totally ruined by the Vietnam War me a
lot of people were in that generation
and you know for my parents and for a
lot of people their age their response
to the Vietnam War had nothing to do
with charity it was real hatred and rage
and so a real sense they wanted to
destroy the United States they wanted an
angry fist you know and I didn't see the
world I mean I think they were wrong to
see it that way also I mean I think they
were both incorrect and morally wrong to
see it that way but you have to grow us
a lot of those people got involved in
loving left-wing politics and they
didn't have any in charitable motos and
it wasn't at all like the way I felt as
a child seeing images of poor and
starving people on television I mean as
a child I never saw that in real life
but in real life you'd see maybe
homeless people on the street see people
living in poverty in different
situations but you see when I was a kid
baby this may be true for you too there
were a lot of images especially of
Ethiopia Ethiopia was the kind of
sterling example of poverty maybe for
your generation into Haiti so you would
have been pretty young with the
earthquake in Haiti happened or
something you know this kind of thing
I'm just giving me
my choir did a tribute concert oh yeah
like raise money yeah but anyway the
image of poverty and starvation
another question of what did we do from
here and in my case so my family was
poor back then - I told you I just
talked about this my mom and my mom was
when we're down to earth better than my
dad it wasn't like I was looking at
those questions to the perspective of
someone born to you know wealth and
privilege with a lot of options it was
looking at it as someone you know that
again my family got more and more money
as time went on after that like while I
was in university kind of period
yeah end of yeah really while I was a
university but anyway um you know I was
looking at as someone who was basically
you know poor and powerless in Canada
but poor by Canadian standards and
wondering what can I do what can we do
and you know the other question which is
definitely links to veganism why doesn't
anybody else care why am I the only
person you know why I'm on the person
moved by those things you know which
obviously a lot of children go through
that you know whether it's accurate or
not whether or not the things that move
you really do move a lot of people or
not
so he says sometime around when you were
studying Buddhism and doing humanitarian
aid you started a tumblr and running
articles on veganism so look these
things overlap I mean back when I was
involved in Buddhism and doing the
direct humanitarian work I identified as
strictly vegetarian I didn't use the
word a vegan I'd never really seen or
heard the word vegan around I remember
the first time I ever heard the word
vegan that's another story I just won't
tell in this video in a sense it's like
I say all the time I understand people
not even thinking about veganism not
being motivated be vegan if you're
actually finding the cure for cancer or
if you're actually deployed in a war
zone in the army you know if you're
doing something you're so passionate
about so back that I'm a strictly
vegetarian I refuse to buy leather for
example I did own leather I would I
would end up buying secondhand leather
or something I was trying not to but buy
leather I believe that that dairy and
eggs were immoral but I would eat
something like a cross all that
invisibly contained those things and
obviously in Cambodia not all that often
unless you live in the cross song this
directive the Phnom Penh Cambodia anyway
um you know but actually indeed the fact
that I was engaged with Buddhism and
doing humanitarian work that made me
it was a counterbalance to say it's like
working on the cure for cancer got
something you're passionate about and
that's about making a pause the
difference in the world and so I wasn't
really thinking about veganism that much
although my own values and choices had
already taken me out of the way 90% of
the way towards
[Music]
ablution